---
layout: post
title: On worrying
comments: true
---

Once or twice I have received the feedback that I appear fearless. 
This is of course fascinating/hilarious to me because I spend most of 
my time worrying that I'm about to trigger some stupid disaster or another.

<!--more-->

Every time I speak up to offer my viewpoint, I'm worried. 
If I say something dumb, will people every trust me again? 

Every time I run a meeting, I'm worried.
Will I fail to keep control of the discourse and people will leave 
feeling that people like me should not have authority? 

Every time I open a pull request, I'm worried. 
What if this is the time I wrote something very stupid and people 
come to the realization that I'm just not cut out to be a developer?

Every time I go to post something online, I'm worried. 
Do my words have value or can they just be used against me?

But no matter how nervous I am, I feel a responsibility to speak up. 
I believe that my viewpoints should be, must be heard because they are 
from someone who spends the majority of her time worrying, and I don't think 
that voice is represented by default. 

At the risk of sounding trite (sounding trite is of course 
just another one of my nightmares), this is what I'd like to end on: 
If you are looking around the room and seeing no one who looks like you,
if you are tuning in and hearing no voice that sounds like yours, please know
that your voice is important not in spite of the fact that you are 
different, but because you are offering what no one else is. 

This I must believe.